My name is Sam and I've been going to gigs in Newport since the early 90s, probably around
93, 94. My very early memories are I used to work in a pub in Pontypool called The Globe
and that was very much like a heavy metal bikers pub and I was 14 and they used to drag me to gigs
in TJ's and I used to have to sneak in because John knows my family so we used to have to pretend
that I was my older sister and he didn't find out for about five years so that was fun. He used to
say to me how's the baby meaning me and I'd reply with oh she's in school she's doing her GCSEs and
it was only when a load of my friends turned up with um 18th birthday balloons on my 18th birthday
that he twigged that I was not Amanda I was actually the baby that he'd been asking about
for the last five years because he hadn't seen any of us because he was friends with my parents
when I was about three or four and then my parents moved back to the Midlands for 10 years so we
hadn't seen him so all he knew was he recognized the face and he was like you've got to be Pete
and Chris's and I was like oh yeah I'm Amanda I'm Amanda and my sister was actually 10 years
older than me as well and he still believed me so he was quite angry when he sussed it though
and he banned me for a month to teach me a lesson and then let me in the next week anyway so
classic John. My first memory of TJs and the gig was getting lost in TJs even though it was really
small because it was so busy and I'm only five foot one and it was so busy that all I could see
was other people's shoulders I couldn't even see the stage or the bar and I'd had some drinks and
I completely lost like all sense of direction and I couldn't even work out which way was out and I
had like a proper panic attack of oh my god there's just shoulders everywhere and I managed to push
my way out and find myself by the toilets and I was like and breathe and I had to like re-center
myself and get like a whole sense of direction again because it used to get so busy in there.
Most of the gigs I went to weren't that well attended so it would have been something the
others dragged me along to because the ones that I went to there was normally about 20 of us
and Simon Phillips that was it and then I'd get dragged along to other stuff and I'd just get
drunk and lost because like pretty much La Pub is the only place gigs happen these days
since TJs closed. I always end up working even if I book the night off I'll end up oh god it's busy
I'm running behind the bar and things it's really yeah I think that's one of the things I'm struggling
with I've always worked these gigs I've never don't have a punter story because everything you
know I've worked with every that's 20 years I've worked gigs they've happened in Newport I've worked
them. I think the problem is that I've got like sound bites from so many gigs and they're so good
and they're all so like important to the history of Newport musically that it's too difficult to
just pinpoint one and talk about it because I always get sidetracked when I start thinking about
the 60 foot dolls warm-up gig my brain then starts thinking about the kids in glass houses
warm-up gig where they played La Pub one day and then played Cardiff Stadium the next support in
Bon Jovi and my brain can't seem to concentrate on one and it's it's really yeah I'm really
struggling. It was more like the proper like punk bands like Rancid and stuff like that I saw Rancid
in TJs I saw Sam I Am I saw Cuba Patrol I saw Down by Law all of that level of punk gigs that
was the stuff I was going to early early on we only went to the Rancid gig because it said X
Operation Ivy on the poster and I was obsessed with Operation Ivy at the time and I was like oh
my god we've got to go we've got to go we've got to go and that was yeah that was probably the best
gig I think there was about 65 there maybe not that busy I mean it's a long long time ago so I
could be completely off but from my recollection there was about 65 to 100 people there certainly
wasn't sold out yeah just a really great gig I mean another band I saw in TJs that blows my mind
because there were only about 20 of us there was Enter Shikari that's that blows my mind so I
remember standing in front of them and thinking these are going to be absolutely huge I don't like
them they're not my thing but they are going to be absolutely massive there was a guy called Jay who
was working for us DJ and put the gig on and I only went along because Jay was putting a gig on
let's go show him some support and I remember standing there and thinking wow I think it's the
only time I've ever really got I'm going to go all Simon Cowell but like the X factor it's the only
time I've ever stood in front of a band and known 100% this band are going to be huge I thought they
were rubbish in terms of what I liked because it's definitely nothing I like but I knew the
second but literally the second they walked onto the stage I said yeah this these are going to be
effing huge